# Laravel Mix Helper for Kirby

Use the `mix` helper function to get the correct path to your versioned CSS and JS files generated by [Laravel Mix](https://github.com/JeffreyWay/laravel-mix).

## Installation

Copy or link the `laravel-mix-kirby` directory to `site/plugins` or use the [Kirby CLI](https://github.com/getkirby/cli): `kirby plugin:install diverently/laravel-mix-kirby`.

You should also install [Laravel Mix](https://github.com/JeffreyWay/laravel-mix), otherwise this plugin is pretty useless ;-) See the [installation guide](https://github.com/JeffreyWay/laravel-mix/blob/master/docs/installation.md) for further information, though it's actually pretty straight forward:

1. If you haven't already, create a `package.json` inside your project root: `npm init -y`
2. Install Laravel Mix: `npm install laravel-mix --save-dev`
3. Move the `webpack.config.js` and `webpack.mix.js` files into your root: `cp -r node_modules/laravel-mix/setup/** ./`

After that you can start using Laravel Mix in your project.

### NPM scripts

You should add the following NPM scripts to your `package.json` to speed up your workflow:

```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "cross-env NODE_ENV=development webpack --progress --hide-modules",
  "watch": "cross-env NODE_ENV=development webpack --watch --progress --hide-modules",
  "production": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production webpack --progress --hide-modules"
}
```



## Usage

### Initial setup
Depending on your preferred project structure you have to make some changes to your `webpack.mix.js`. You should set the paths where the `mix-manifest.json` as well as the CSS and JS files will be stored.
I keep my source files outside the `kirby` (or `dist`) directory but you may have a different setup. Mine looks as follows:

```
- kirby (or dist)
  |- assets
     |- css
     |- js
     |- ...
- src
  |- css
     |- main.scss
     |- ...
  |- js
     |- main.js
     |- ...
  |- ...
```

With that setup I start with the following `webpack.mix.js`:

```js
mix.setPublicPath('kirby/assets/')
mix.js('src/js/main.js', 'kirby/assets/js/')
   .sass('src/css/main.scss', 'kirby/assets/css')
   .version();
```

When you run `npm run dev` your `main.js` and `main.css` files will be created. They will also be versioned which makes referencing them via the standard `css()` and `js()` methods pretty tedious. That’s where the helper function comes in (and thus this entire plugin).

### `mix()` helper function
The `mix()` helper function reads the `mix-manifest.json` file and returns the right HTML tag with the correct (versioned) path to the requested file. In our example we would call it like so:

```php
// snippets/header.php
<head>
  // ...

  <?= mix('css/main.css') ?>
</head>

// snippets/footer.php
  <?= mix('js/main.js') ?>
</body>
</html>
```

And that's it, actually.

### Options

In your `site/config/config.php` you can set two options to make this helper work with your specific setup:

#### `mixManifestPath`
This is where the helper function will look for the manifest created by Laravel Mix.

Default: `assets/mix-manifest.json`

#### `mixAssetsPath`
This will be prepended to the individual file paths given to the `mix()` function when creating the final HTML tags.

Default: `assets`

> The idea behind this originally came from the `mix` Blade helper created for the Laravel framework. This is merely just a "translation" for the Kirby CMS
